  
  >> Hello, hello.  It's getting there.  Not yet?
  Now?
  Can you hear me?
  Okay.  Perfect.  I'm just going to jump in.  I'm going to be talking quite a bit about the protests ensemble anonymous, they're fixing my other  Mic I'll move out in a second.  For people that kind of follow anonymous a little bit you might know they might be something most politically incorrect activists in the world.  A little bit of a warning, there will be a little bit of offensive material that comes in the talk but it shouldn't be too bad.  So, who here has met an anthropologist before?
  Wow, lot of you guys.  Well, that's what I am.  I'm an anthropologist we're not too common -- I'm going to have to stand here.  Anthropologists are not too common.  When I tell people like, I don't know, my accountant or my doctor that I'm an anthropologist they are usually pretty excited because they think I work in the jungle or with skulls.  Then I tell them that I work with computer hackers and they get even more confused.  Then I just kind of drop it.  But I'm an anthropologist since about 2001 I've worked on computer hackers and geeks.  My first project was on free software.  I like to tell people when I'm trying to keep it simple that I study the effect of free software has had on people.  And as you can see --
  [ laughter ]
  The one drug --
  [Applause]
  That improves your life.  And more seriously I did spend five or six years studying it culminated in a book called "Coding freedom, the ethics and aesthetics of hacking".  Who here recognizes the code that's in the bird?
  Anyone know what it is?
  The DCSS which was illegal under the digital millennium and copyright a little it's funny you can see the codes actually in Perl, not in Python.  I was actually trying to make a joke last night about how I wanted it to be Python but that Pythons eat birds.  And then actually I was like, well, is that true?
  I Googles last night Python eat birds.  There's very graphic videos, Python do eat birds.  But that's not the reason why I didn't include it.  Just Perl was one of the kind of programs, this book is ethnography of Debian the free software.  I look at the governance.
  Project, how humor functions among hackers I look the these big political battles over software and code.  Now, did I something very foolish because now does this work?
  Good.  Did I something foolish which was right after finishing this book I went ahead and wrote a second book.  Which I don't recommend.  You have no social life.  This book is called "Hacker, hoaxer, Whistleblower spy, the many faces of anonymous" my Ed editor came up with flashy first half I was very insistent for the second half.  Even though it's a faceless organization there truly are these many faces of anonymous.  It's a phenomena that's incredibly difficult to define.  By the many faces I mean, that it's a protest movement, that it's a symbol for popular revolt, it is a set of activists who popularize digital direct action.  There's competing tactics in groups.  It's a meeting ground between art and politics or art and technology and one of the most interesting elements, too, is how they symbolize anonymity but within the collective they really, really have a strong ethic against fame seeking.  So, with so much going on it is incredibly difficult to define.  And unlike my research with comparative free software the research was quite straight forward and simple.  The research on anonymous was incredibly thrilling and frustrating at the very same time.  The next image which was the original cover of the book but then editors like, it looks too much like a 1980s video game.  Which he's kind of right.  The maze is the master metaphor of the book.  There is a tremendous amount of deception and secrecy in anonymous, it's very difficult to figure things out.  You feel like you're living the reality of a puzzle.  And just recently someone on Twitter mentioned after reading my book they said, "I would have lost my mind researching for that book".  And I replied, well, I kind of did lose my mind at a certain point.  I became incredibly paranoid.  The paranoia was kind of a low level barometric paranoia always with you.  It would only shoot up when, for example, it was viewed that one of the main hackers Sabu was an informant working for the FBI I was like, oh, wow, that's why he sought me out and we met all those times, right?
  So, it was incredibly difficult project to study, very difficult to define.  And another reason why it's also so difficult to define is because it's really this idea and set of Iconographies that are free to take by anyone that means that patches are welcome by anyone.  And you get really a strange and odd mix of contributors, a little bit like how GitHub makes forking very easy because you just press the button,  "fork" well, forking is incredibly common in anonymous.  There's groups that split off from existing groups, other groups that just form out of the blue.  So it's incredibly dynamic and chaotic kind of social scene.  One may think that this name that is used for the purposes of political activity that's free to take by anyone is a new phenomena there is other kind of similar groups that have existed in our near history, in our far history.  For example, Luther Blissett is an icon and name that was invented by Italian activists in 1994.  Then it started to spread across the continent in all sorts of artists, activists and hackers took the name to lay claim to various pranks.  So that's one of the more famous ones in recent times.  But if we go back further in the 1830s, there were these riots that the farmers in England were organizing because there was the introduction of new machines which they felt were threatening their livelihood.  And they invented a character called Captain Swing, it was this collective name that was taken by different farmers to lay claim to both actions and when they wrote letters of protests.  So, these are couple of the sort of similar examples of collective name making that came in the past.  But anonymous is of the present, it's also a kind of world that's pretty geeky, filled with a lot of hackers so I spent an enormous amount of time on IRC doing my research just like I did with open source.  Many of the operations were organized, perhaps stupidly in public channels, but this is where the activity really was.  And one of the things as an anthropologist that I did was if you're hanging around long enough they put you to work.  And so I became a gopher, not the gopher protocol but a literal gopher.  Between the world of journalism and anonymous.  I taught more journalists how to get on IRC than probably anyone else in the world, a dubious distinction to have.  But I got about 50 of them on IRC because there was reporter channel.  I translated during interviews, so this was one of my main roles.  At a certain point couple years into research, anonymous became a lot less anonymous.  People were arrested.  So, part of my research moved off line and into prisons and into kind of courts, this is Jeremy Hammond who is doing ten-year jail sentence for his activity in anonymous.  And I met quite a few nearly all of the arrested hackers.  Now, if you were an anonymous hacking it was probably a good idea to be on the other side of the Atlantic.
  This is me in London at the royal court theater with four members of low second anonymous who had all been arrested but they are already out of jail because they don't live in the United States.  This was a play that was about anonymous we did a panel, so it was definitely able to meet people which definitely changed the tenor of the research.  Now, even though I said anonymous is difficult to define, I do think that there are ways to define it.  So I'm providing a handy definition which is an activist ensemble that is multitude news, prolific and unpredictable.  It's one of the reasons why it's so prolific today. It's associated with politics and activism.
  This is really clear in images and posters and videos that are made.  It's about disobeying laws that are unjust.  About getting involved in different political movements, around the world.  From occupy to Ferguson.  This is just an image from last night here there is big protests in Montreal against austerity and anonymous Quebec D-DOSed a police website and took it down.  They're all very active constantly.  But, if today anonymous is all about activism.  Well, it's really then historical aberration and mistake.  Because in many ways anonymous was never supposed to be a political thing.  And someone in the fall who was part of an earlier generation of anonymous trolls told me this precise thing when he or she said, you know, anonymous was never supposed to be political.  I got a little bit scared when this person tweeted at me because I wrote a whole book how anonymous is political.  I just agreed with him or her and he seemed satisfied and didn't troll me which was wonderful.
  [ laughter ]
  But, he's referring to the fact that anonymous was foremost a name that was used for Internet trolling.  Which is a form of sometimes humorous, oftentimes extremely offensive and fearsome forms of pranking.  Now, there's many different ways to troll, there's this idea that trolling only happens if you're anonymous which is not true.  One of the most famous trolls in the known universe is Weev who is not anonymous.  And some ways he is the total opposite of anonymous, he trolls for his own celebrity.  But anonymous was a name that was used on the image board to organize trolling exam pains.  And this is a thread that was started early on in my research when anonymous was still trolling, and it was a thread that was trying to get the Army of Internet trolls to send me hundreds of Pizzas, Dox my Social Security number my heart sunk when I saw.
  This and somewhat thankfully the campaign never took off but obviously many, many campaigns that were organized ed on this anonymous image board did take off.  I suspect here people know what trolling is.  But I just want to offer one final definition that I kind of like by Whitney Phillips who is just wrote a great book about trolls.  Trolls enjoy desecrating anything remotely take credit as cultural theorist Whitney Phillips conveys in her 'suit characterization of trolls as agents of cultural digestion, who scavenge the landscape, repurpose the most offensive material then shove the resulting monstrosities into the faces of unsuspecting.  They do it for the Lulz their own enjoyment.  Anonymous was so famous for trolling that in 2007 they were called the Internet hate machine by fox news.  Anonymous thought this street pretty great name they took on that moniker.  Now, six months after being called the Internet hate machine, there was a transformation, a U-turn and anonymous got engaged in activists campaigns.  Now, how did this happen.  Well, I'm going to show you a short video clip that is completely -- really two video clips that are completely responsible for the transformation.  Let me just show you 30 seconds of the first one.
  >> If that's what Mr. Cruise has brought to this world, there still remains one more word on the man.  Call it Tom cruise on Tom cruise Scientologist.
  >> Being Scientologist when you drive past an accident it's not like anyone else.  As you drive past you know you have to do something about it because you know you're the only one that can really help.  But that's what drives me is that I know we have an opportunity and to really help.
  [ laughter ]
  >> This video was leaked by little "A" anonymous it was Scientologist, critics of the church who got this to journalists, spread like wildfire.  Who here has watched it before?
  So, not enough.  Watch the rest of the thing it was hilarious.  You know the Internet was enjoying what was Luhlz even though it wasn't trying to be.  The church of Scientology went after news publishers like gawker said, we're going to sue you if you don't take that down.  And anonymous is like, we're enjoying this video.  You're going to sue publishers?
  You know what?
  We're going to engage in the most epic trolling campaign we have ever engaged in.  That's precisely what they did.  So this is a quote from my book by someone who participated in this trolling campaign led by anonymous against the church of Scientology.
  >>> The unified bulk of anonymous collaborated through massive chat rooms to engage in various forms of ultra coordinated motherfuckery.  For very short time websites were hacked Ddos'ed to remove from them the Internet.  The dianetics telephone hot lines were completely bombarded with prank calls.  All-black pieces of paper were fixed to -- faxed to every fax number we could get hands on.  And the secrets of their religion were blasted all over the Internet I also personally scanned by bare Ass and faxed it to them.  Because Fuck them.  A handful of people went on IRC channel creating a Luhlzy video for the fun of it I'm going to show you a short clip of it.
  [ video clip ]
  >> Anonymous has their decided that organization should be destroyed.  For the good of your followers, for the good of mankind and for our own enjoyment.  We shall proceed to expel you from the Internet and systematically dismantle the church of Scientology and its present form.  We recognize you as serious opponents.  And do not expect our campaign to be completed in a short timeframe.  However, you will not layup against the angry masses of the body politic your choice of methods, you're hypocrisy and lawlessness of your organization have --
  >> I love that you're general artlessness.  I'll show you an example.  This video was very interesting because even though it was done as a joke it helped spark a debate.  A lot of people said, maybe we should kind of earnestly dismantle the church of Scientology.  And then ex-critics of the church reached out to anonymous said, look, your campaign was really amazing, can you join us and just let go of the trolling but become part of this sort of protest against the church of Scientology.  Well, enough people in anonymous decided to go ahead with the experiment of protesting the church of Scientology and on February 10th, 2008 in over 127 cities around the world, over 9,000 geeks and hackers showed up in front of Scientology churches to protest them.  The largest protests were in Sydney, London, New York and Los Angeles.  And they were of wild success.  Now most people came out to meet other people from four tran, it is anonymous image board you spent all your time on four tran, so great to meet you a lot of piece people receded back to the caverns of the Internet.  But enough people stayed on to protest the church of Scientology every month that a new project, activist project, got constituted.  Now, you could imagine a lot of the trolls were really F-ing pissed off at.
  This you are using the name of anonymous for activism.  We are a fearsome band of trollings and in fact, soon after this activist campaign, the most notorious trolling campaign ever under the name of anonymous occurred.  And it was people seeking revenge.  This was when a number of people, I don't know how many went to epilepsy forums and posted flashing Gifs.  This could endanger people's lives.  I mention this because it was a real serious transformation to have trolls become activists and some were extremely upset.  What was amazing I was watching at this point, wow, the name will never survive.  But it did.  It did.  The name anonymous was used to protest the church of Scientology.  Now I had explanation I not this was truly historical aberration the only reason why there was an allowance for activity was the church of Scientology is the perfect Nemesis for geeks and hackers.  You can't have an organization that stands in such a kind of anti-Potal opposite inverted relation slip to the geek and hacker world.  To give you a taste of this, I think you all know why this is so, right, Scientology is a religion of fake technology and pseudoscience.  But let me show you a document from the church of Scientology which is called "Keep Scientology working" it's their philosophy of technology.  So one is having the correct technology.  Two, knowing the technology.  Three, knowing it is correct.  Four, teaching correct the correct technology.  Five applying the technology.  Seeing that the sec technology is correctly applied.
  Hammering out the existence of incorrect technology.  Knocking out incorrect applications.  Closing the door on any possibility of incorrect technology.  And so on, so forth.  Right?
  This is not how geeks and hackers treat technology where you're supposed to bend it to your own kind of will.  And so I think there's a real pleasure in protesting your perfect nemesis.  I kind of chalked it up to that, under the right historical circumstances anonymous became activists, but it won't ever, ever exceed a politics of protesting the church of Scientology.  But between 2008 and 2010 certain things happened.  The name was still used by trolls.  There was campaign still ongoing against the church of Scientology.  But really the big player in town was Wikileaks.  This is from April 2010 when Wikileaks collateral murder the murder of American soldiers gunning down Reuters journalists in comparison to Wikileaks anonymous seemed extremely geopolitically insignificant.  But then something happened soon after in September of 2010.  A new node by the name of Anonops which became own dedicated IRC server came into being to protest to defend filing sharing and piracy.  The unique in know separation about this node was Chanology dropped it but not for trolling but for political protests.  Soon after they would come to intersect with Wikileaks, that would happen after Wikileaks jumped the diplomatic cables which upset the U.S. government quite dramatically.  And as people here probably remember the U.S. government asked services that were providing support for Wikileaks like PayPal, MasterCard to pull the plug.  They precisely did that and this angered the Internet, right?
  Anonymous was in very good position to then engage in a big Ddos attack against PayPal, MasterCard and Visa, it was the largest Ddos protests action the Internet has ever seen.  There was 7,000 people logged on to one IRC channel that's a lot of people.  For one channel.  Lots of people were using anonymous was using the bot nets as well.  Now, soon after this, anonymous gets involved in Tunisia and the Arab spring and this is the moment really when anonymous becomes anonymous everywhere.  They got involved in operations in Zimbabwe, Venezuela, the Arab spring, it really started to look like this.  It was a kind of hydra, with many different competing groups and tax particulars who were getting involved across the world.  Now, one of the things about anonymous is that a certain operation will change the course of its future.  And there was one operation HG Gary that occurred in February of 2011 that brought out the hacking in a very public way.  So there was a person called Aaron barr who was security researcher that worked for HB Gary and he basically had said that he had infiltrated anonymous and that he was going to give over the names to the FBI and this was published in the "Financial times" anonymous was quite upset he is specially because most of the names were actually wrong.  So article was published in the morning, in the afternoon HB Gary was brutally hacked they downloaded 70,000 e-mails, they deleted a bunch of files, they took over Aaron barr's Twitter account.  This was this momentous act of revenge.  But during the course of the operation and sifting through the e-mails, they found some politically damning information, there was a PowerPoint presentation called the Wikileaks threats which HB Gary was proposing for bank of America.  And the idea was to discredit Wikileaks by planting false information by Ddosing it and discrediting and smearing journalists like Glenn greenwald who supported Wikileaks.  The effect on anonymous was twofold.  First of all a lot of the hackers grew into hacking companies just to expose security vulnerabilities.  And Lulzsec did just this for 50 days.  They hacked for 50 days.  Retired antisec came into being looking for politically damning information through their hacks.  So, between 2012-14 trolling under the name for the most part stops, increasingly you have a lot of global operations, the name is used for very different types of operations.  But you also have a lot of arrests as well.  In 2012.  In part because the fellow with the FBI badge was Sabu who was to become informant he helped catch a lot of people.  But this didn't stop anonymous.  It changed things.  So in the United States, in Canada a lot of the operations became focused on publicizing other kind of issues, most famously they got involved in a number of rape cases in Stubenenville, Ohio, in Halifax.  A lot of the hacking then moved off shore to Latin America.  For example, this is Lulzsec Peru hacked in to the government found e-mails showing corruption.  And the Peruvian government was one vote shy away from collapsing.  There was just an article the other day, couple days ago about anonymous international which is a kind of group that attacks the Kremlin, a Russian group.  So, a lot of the hacking is occurring but in very different types -- very -- not in the United States where you're going to get thrown in jail for ten years.  So, for my last ten minutes I want to transition a little bit, I wanted to give you a little bit of a picture of anonymous and you ho they came into being how odd it was that they became an activists force.  But I think one of the interesting things about anonymous is that they're not the only player in town.  A lot of geeks and hackers are taking the political sword in greater numbers than ever before and in very different ways as well.  Anonymous is only one kind of element in this diverse ecology.  Anonymous is the grass roots participatory direct action wing of a much broader set of trends.  And Wikileaks in many ways epitomize this dramatic kind of transformation of geeks and hackers willing to take dramatic risks for the purposes of trying to save democracy, expose surveillance.  But again very diverse landscape with so many different types of actors.  And geeks are building tools, writing free software, running technology, collective like riseup, founding political parties and of course, whistle blowing and leaking as well.  One of the things that I find interesting is that there's a lot of differences between, let's say the political party and anonymous.  In fact the political party, the pirate party begged anonymous to stop Ddosing anonymous is like, that's what we do.
  We believe that this is a form of civil disobedience.  So even though we have shared interests our tactics are different.  I think it's good to have a kind of diverse tactical landscape, but it's also important to have moments of unity and synergy, right?
  And we've seen many of these in the last couple of years.  I think most dramatically we saw that with stopping Sopa, the stop online piracy act.  Where so many different quarters of the geek world from the corporate to grass roots to free software every kind of imaginable institution kind of contributed with dramatic effect.  And now I'm going to show you a clip of Edward Snowden who needs no introduction who I think speaks to importance of free software.  In the fight.  So, let me just play that clip for a second.
  >> It's a really complex topic and I think -- when we talk about whether or not the government begins going after journalists, this is the real sticking point for me, because in terms of my political philosophy as it relates to technology here, is I would say almost Stalin-esque.  When you think about free software.  When you think about free software we need to think about software as a means of expressing our freedom.  But also defending our freedom.  Governments rely on the same technologies we do.  They adopt the same standards, they use the same products.  And this happens worldwide.  So, the solution to that when you ask me, is whether or not the United States government can manage to behave itself, to restrain itself against violating the constitution, against bringing sights against journalists against limiting the freedom of press other governments will make different decisions.  And if we want to live in a better more enlightened world what we'd need to do is to remove those capabilities from the governments by enshrining our rights into our means of --
  >> Okay.  It's funny because when I saw this I hadn't known whether Snowden was into open source or free software this was nice confirmation of the importance of free software in the general fight.  Now, as you can imagine if geeks and hackers are in greater numbers engaging in leaking and whistle blowing and activism, well, the government is also then really going after geeks and hackers and there have been a tremendous number of people who have been arrested in anonymous there have been over 100 arrests around the world with very, very long jail sentences in the United States.  Julian Assange has been under house arrest, Snowden is in exile, others are in exile.  And government is pretty unhappy with these kind of trends and in fact the next image is a slide from GSHQ which is about Tore they have a list of Tor that is the good news, the bad news, the bad uses includes pedophiles and anonymous, right?
  So the government is not exactly thrilled.  That you have all these hackers taking political action.  But probably the most disturbing trend is not simply that the hackers are getting in trouble, some of them after all, are breaking into servers, right?
  I mean, what they're doing is criminal.  Even if one might say it's politically acceptable.  But I think the most disturbing trend is that they're going after journalists as well, which is what Edward Snowden had mention.  Here we have an image of Barrett brown who was a core anonymous activist, he was never anonymous, he always used his name.  And he never hacked but he was thrown in jail and faced 100-year sentence, simply for sharing a link to stolen data as part of a hack against a global intelligence firm, Stratford.  Now, eventually those charges were dropped and he was in the end only charged for three things, he was charged for threatening an FBI agent, which did he on a video.  He hid his laptops during a warrant search.
  Then he was also charged for what is called accessory after the fact.  He went to the hackers and said, hey, I want to get the e-mails you got through your hack to put them on my journalistic website, project PM, for saying that, he became an accessory after the fact.  And basically he ended up, the judge said, "More than merely reported the hackers' activities" he helped organize them".  And in the end he got 64 months in jail and had to pay -- will have to pay nearly $1 million restitution fine which is unbelievable for a journalist.
  One may think that Barrett brown is an outlier.  He was charged and sentenced in Texas as his lawyer said, it's always a crap shoot when you're in Texas.  But right around this time there was a really amazing article that came out in the "Guardian" that showed that the GCHQ had Hoovered 70,000 e-mails in one day in ten minutes.  A lot of those e-mails were of journalists from places like the "New York Times", BBC and Reuters.  And what is really remarkable is that journalists were represented as a threat to security.  They were actually a little less threatening than terrorists, but more threatening than hackers.  Which I was like, wow, how did that happen?
  That's incredible.  And now really just to wrap up because I think it is quite disturbing that journalists are being tagged as a national security threat when they are the ones who are necessary to keep government power in check.  It's disturbing.  I felt like I had to put these two images of XENU and GCHQ which looks like alien space ship.  We find Scientology so weird and unbelievable because, again, science fiction is the basis for their scientific methods, it doesn't work.  GQHQ heralding journalists as terrorist threat is even weirder and more terrifying in my opinion.  Scientology is more attackable in some ways because it's more confined.  But what is going on with GCHQ is absolutely frightening.  And just to finish a couple, let's just say about -- basically until June, 2013, I portrayed anonymous as the funeral at the funeral of online privacy.  I was like, it's over.  There are just too many vectors and too many threats.  But after the leaks, which also spurred the development of technological tools for encryption I feel like the reaper has been kept at bay a little bit.  And what is so exciting about seeing so many people in this room is that free software does play an important role in that fight.  So just to finish I just want to say, keep on doing what you're doing.  And thank you so much for listening to my talk.  Thank you.
  [ Applause ]
  I can't take questions.  But I'm going to be around all day so you can find me and ask me as many questions as you want.
  [Applause]
  
